DiySolar:			Do-it-yourself [Smart] Solar.
ESW:				ElectroSolarWare.
Title:				Tesla Powerwall idea.
Conception : 		15/05/2015.
First iteration: 	15/05/2015.
This document: 		20/05/2015.
Author: 			Edwin
Version: 			0.10

Tesla Powerwall main ideas:

	Tesla's new Powerwall battery system is specified at 10kWh capacity with 2kW maximum supply capability each.
	Ten year guarantee (extendible to 20 years) and an overall efficiency of 91% including charger and inverter.
	Cost are now $3500 or R42000 at the current exchange rates. 
	Instantaneous switching from charging to supplying depending on energy cost and charge balance.  
	Supply shifting is charging with off-peak energy and co-supplying during peak energy tariffs where TOU tariffs are used.
	Supply shifting gives a payback period of less than ten years for the above targeted applications on its own.
	The battery also functions as backup during blackout periods in manual mode.
	It can be an UPS (Un-interruptible Power Supply) in automatic mode.
	For a very reliable UPS extra investment in automatic grid disconnect and load shedding switches will be needed.
	For the above targeted applications it will smooth out PV generation and demand peaks automatically.
	The DiySolar Smart Energy Director will ensure optimal payback period with a set blackout supply reliability.
	Makes use of cloud connection weather (insolation) prediction to minimise charging from grid.
	a) For optimum continuity of supply in grid (TOU) connected day-time applications:
		Battery supply should be the same as PV supply.
		Use PV to supply power during peak and normal tariff periods.
		Charge battery from grid with off-peak tariffs. (score difference between normal and off-peak tariffs)
		Recharge batteries from excess PV, during low demand and high insolation, for maximum continuity.
		Use batteries to co-supply during peak-tariff periods and dips in insolation during normal tariff.
		Use batteries as supply during blackouts. (Backup function for continuity.)
		Costs nearly double of just PV of same capacity but payback with TOU tariffs the same.
	b) For least energy cost from the grid or off-grid in the above targeted applications: (daylight only)
		PV supply should be double of battery supply or system capacity.
		Charge with PV and use PV at same rate, then used battery supply to double sun hours.
		Smoothing capability: allowable peak demand is three times average demand while sun shines.
		Costs nearly three times as much as only PV supply. (need to charge batteries from PV)
	c) For 12hour-full and 12h-half supply in off-grid applications.
		PV supply should be three times and battery supply twice the system capacity.
		Smoothing capability: allowable peak demand is five times average demand while sun shines.
		and twice system capacity with no sun.
		Costs nearly five times as much as only PV supply. (need to charge batteries (6h + 12h*0.5 supply) from PV in six hours)
	d) For 24hour constant supply in off-grid applications.
		PV supply should be four times and battery supply three times the system capacity.
		Smoothing capability: allowable peak demand is seven times average demand while sun shines.
		Costs nearly seven times as much as only PV supply. (need to charge batteries (18h supply) from PV in six hours)
