DiySolar:			Do-it-yourself [Smart] Solar.
ESW:				ElectroSolarWare.
Title:				DiySolar modules.
Conception : 		25/04/2014.
First iteration: 	26/06/2014.
This document: 		10/07/2014.
Author: 			Edwin
Version: 			0.10

DiySolar Modules:

a) DiySolar Smart Energy Director/Gateway: (not essential)
	DIY Plug-in for SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) functionality.
	Cloud gateway for rest of system modules.
	Close to network switch for LAN/Internet/WiFi access.
	Security with HTTPS and internal Firewall.
	Secure API for Cloud server and third party access.
	HTML[5] server for local dashboard, commissioning and fault-finding.
	Future control load switches for load shedding.
	Rate of changing control with local grid support when isolated from supply grid.
	Incomer control with DiySolar DB Auxiliary over mains wiring with PLC.
	2G Flash Drive for temporary storage, buffering, and server pages.
	SD Memory Card interface for extra storage and dumping of off-line data.
	Real-time clock. (clock server for rest of system)
	

b) DiySolar Smart DB Auxiliary External: (not essential, needed for UPS function)
	Install by electrician only.
	Next to DB (distribution board) to control incomer and some loads. 
	Uses Rogowsky coils for easy installation.
	Automatic incomer disconnect/isolation for islanding local supply during outages. (UPS function)
	Automatic sync and reconnect after outage. (No power interruption on reconnect.)
	Check metering for account verification.
	Use PLC communications to Energy Director/Gateway for measurement and control.
	One, two or three additional load switches for load shedding. (independent for better remote control - size ???)
	Could be used for virtual power-station with the above. (See cloud power green energy.) 
	Three units needed for 3-phase. (? communicate via neutral for single interface to director/gateway ?)
	Powered from either the load or grid sides.  

b1) DiySolar Smart Distribution Board Auxiliary: 
	Miniature second incarnation of external module above.
	Maybe replace RCD (residual current detector) unit functionality in DB to ease wiring requirement. 
	RCD & Isolator & Contactor & measurements in one unit - same space (dimensions) and connections.
	Install by electrician only (on incomer).
	Cut installation time by 3/4.
	Everything from above external unit.

c) DiySolar Smart Micro Inverter (SMI):
	Rating input:  230VAC 1W. (Standby and start-up)
	Rating supply: 110VDC 10A.
	Rating output: 250VAC 460VA synchronous. (Absolute maximum ratings.)
	Double insulation to eliminate earth leakage and electrocution risks.
	Start-up/idle power from Line (grid) side.
	Temporary start-up power from the DC side with manual start button. (Used for forced reset/registering also.)

c1) Installation and commissioning instructions:
1) Cover solar voltaic panel so that NO light can reach it. (Use tarpaulin or blanket.) 
	It is deadly dangerous with high DC voltages and currents while exposed to light. 
2) Connect black wire to black terminal by pushing down on connector button, inserting stripped wire and releasing button.
	Connect red wire to red terminal. 
	See step by step sketch 1.
3) Use supplied screws to mount DiySolar module on solar panel frame. 
	Use existing holes and mounting tabs. 
	See sketch 2.
4) Insert plug into mains socket. Switch on when a switched socket used. 
5) Remove solar voltaic panel cover. 
6) Press boot/reset switch on master panel or director to register the new panel in the DiySolar system. 
	(On this panel if its the only one, to make it master.)
7) Operational indication lights: 
	Orange shows Ready status with available power indication.
	Green shows Run status and generating power.
	Both lights off: no power to unit. (Check that it is plugged in and switched on.)
	Orange flashing slowly: Mains connected and on standby.
	Orange and green flashing slowly: Communications and registered, still on standby.
	Orange on and green off: Energy ready for delivery, not registered.
	Green flashing: Rate of flashing equal to energy delivered up to maximum when it stays on.
	Green on and orange flashing: One of the module limits has been reached - protecting mode warning. 

d) DiySolar Smart Battery Micro Inverter (SBMI): (Similar to Smart Micro Inverter.)
	Rating input:  230VAC 500W (Charging), 1W (Standby and start-up.) (?1500W charging? 0.125C = 15A)
	Rating supply: 110VDC 10A.
	Rating output: 230VAC 460VA  synchronous (Absolute maximum ratings.)
	Any battery technology. (Can be used for any future technology with SW updates from cloud.)
	Charger with battery temperature feedback. 
	Under director or master control. (Will limit charging current every cycle to keep net stability.)
	Current, voltage and temperature limited for self-protection.
	Green run light stays on and orange ready light flashing when charging (at rate of flashing.).
	Rate of changing controlled from Energy Director Gateway with local grid support when isolated.
	Uses TOU (time of use) tariffs optimisation when on grid depending function min cost or max backup.
	Up to 9 * 1kwh batteries 120Ah@12V*80% discharge/BMI for 18 hours at 500VA (0.04C = 5A).
	Optimised for three times higher charge to discharge current (18h load / 6h sun).

e) DiySolar Smart Wind Micro Inverter (SWMI): (Similar to above.)
	Can use car alternator @ 60A > 500w with DiySolar control.
	Must use batteries or e-car as storage for full efficiency.
	
e) DiySolar Smart Electric Car Inverter (SECI): (Similar to above)
	High wattage - 3 to 6 kW.

f) DiySolar Smart Load Control (SLC): (optional)
	Home automation - slaves
	Load current monitor - energy, phase and harmonics.
	Two loads @ 16A maximum total.
	Operation and indicator lights:
		Orange slowly flashing - powered.
		Green slowly flashing - under control of master or director.
		Green on disconnected load one.
		Orange on disconnected load two.
