ESW = ElectroSolarWare
DiySolar product range.
DiySolarWare = do-it-yourself Solar Ware

Firmware-software-cloud-applications


site DiySolar 
visitor access  - Solar calculator to do most of solar voltaic calculations in a transparent way.
				- Energy, Cost and Payback calculated for your geographical Latitude.
				- Energy optimisation calculations for inclination, summer or winter loads and shading.
				- Battery calculations
				- Supplier database
				- Real testing results database
				- Aggregate customer experience results database per region or country
				- Orders & Pricing of DiySolar modules.
				- Blog
				- FAQ's

customer access - needs registration to enable encryption, decryption, etc. (See privacy policy.)
				- All real-time energy data from own site encrypted, runs from application also.
				- RSS feed of general events and data, and site news and blog.
				- check metering for account verification.
				- history on energy saved - carbon saved - and with the input of costs supplied, 
					the current daily, weekly and monthly saving and current payback period.
				- history on excess/wasted energy - that could not be used because of low load.
				- software/firmware downloads and upgrades.
				- history of events and alarms.
				- solar voltaic panel condition for each set of panels separately
					age, current delivery and efficiency, peak delivery and other data - like shading.
				- battery condition for each stack separate.
					age, current charge, peak delivery, capacity left relative to new installation.
				- customer blog
				- FAQ's

Research and educational access - some aggregate data per region/country/world available to registered institutions 
API-
news-
blog-
Faq-
Privacy policy-


Firmware:
Each type of micro inverter communicates to the Energy Director/gateway over the power connection.
	Uses CENELEC B & C or FCC band, ITU G.9903 G3-PLC (power-line communications) open standard.
Synchronisation & SCADA functions.
Internal safety - protection of module against over-current, over-temperature, over-voltage, tampering.
	component failure and functional specification check during start-up, lockout shut-down on error.
	earth leakage (residual current) and high earth voltage detection and reporting.
External safety - Shut-down with no load impedance, no automatic start-up without system communication.
All internal power conversions driven with digital signal processing.
Monitor all voltages and currents on the AC and DC sides, calculate all powers and energy, and from that
irradiation, panel and overall efficiencies. 

Energy Director/Gateway:
HTML5 server for local control, configuration, commissioning and dashboard.
API for communications to cloud or any other device with security access.
Overall safety of system.
Overall security of system.
Registers all slaves on local system.
Overall automatic software updates and version control.
Three phase synchronisation functions.
Residual current summation - and trip on safety limit with manual reset required.
Calculates overall power and energy flow, efficiencies.
Consolidate stored power and capacities.  
Calculate backup times from capacities and load currents.
Real-time Clock server for rest of modules - timestamps.
Data dump to SD memory card.
File system on 2G Flash Drive - current software all modules - off-line data storage.

DiySolar Distribution Board Auxiliary:
Communicates to the Energy Director/gateway over the power connection.
	Uses CENELEC B & C or FCC band, ITU G.9903 G3-PLC (power-line communications) open standard.
Synchronisation & SCADA functions.
Internal safety - protection of module against over-temperature, over-voltage and tampering.
	component failure and functional specification check during start-up, lockout shut-down on error.
All internal power conversions driven with digital signal processing.
Monitor all voltages with phase on the AC Load and Grid sides, current and residual current (Earth leakage).
Calculate all power flow and integral thereof (energy).
Monitor Grid current and trip grid connection if big negative for half cycle. (Grid outage - UPS function.)
Sync internal phase with grid before reconnect.
Monitor residual current and trip everything if over limit.
Monitor switched loads current.
